you
this lecture is continued discussion of
evaluating of textbook categorization
earlier we have introduced measures that
can be used to compute a precision and
recall for each category and each
document now in this lecture we're going
to further examine how to combine the
performance these different categories
or different documents how do we
aggregate them how do we take average
you see on the title here I indicated
it's called a mackerel average and this
is the count in contrast to micro
average that we'll talk more about that
later so again for each category we're
going to compute the precision recall
and f1 so for example for category C 1
we have precision p 1 recall our 1 and F
value F 1 and similarly we can do that
for category 2 and all the other
categories and once we compute that and
we can aggregate them so for example we
can ever get all the preceding values
for all the categories to compute the
overall precision and this is often very
useful to summarize what we have seen in
the whole data set and the aggregation
can be done in many different ways again
as I said are in a case when you need to
aggregate different values it's always
good to think about what's the best way
of doing the aggregation for example you
can consider arithmetic me which is very
commonly used or you can use geometric
mean which would have different the
behavior depending on the way you
aggregate you might get different
conclusions in terms of which method
works better so it's important to
consider these differences and choosing
the right one or more suitable one for
your task so the difference for example
between arithmetic and geometric mean is
that the arithmetic mean would be
dominated by high values whereas
geometric mean would be more affected by
low values and so whether you want to
emphasize low values or
high values would be a question related
to go application and similar we can do
that full recall and F score so that's
how we can then generate the overall
precision recall and F score now we can
do the same for aggregation over all the
documents absolutely it's exactly the
same situation for each document of our
computer proceeding recall and F and
then after we have completed the
computation for all these documents
we're going to aggregate them to
generate the overall position over a
recall and overall F score and these are
again examining the results from
different angles and which one is more
useful or depending on your application
in general it's beneficial to look at
the results from all these perspectives
and especially if you compare different
methods in different dimensions it might
reveal which method is better in which
measure or in what situations and this
provides insight for understanding the
strengths of a method or witness and
this provides further insight for
improving them so as I mentioned there
is also micro averaging in contrast to
the macro average that we talked about
earlier in this case what we do is to
pull together all the decisions and then
computed precision and recall so we can
compute the overall precision and recall
by just counting how many cases are in
true positive how many cases in false
positive etc basically computing the
values to fear in this contingency table
and then we can compute precision
recorders once now in contrast in macro
averaging we're going to do that for
each category first and then aggregate
over these categories all we do that for
each document and then aggregate over
all the documents but here we pull them
together now this will be very similar
to the classification accuracy that we
introduced earlier
and one problem here of course is to
treat all the instances all the
decisions equally and this may not be
desirable but it may be a property for
some applications especially if we
associate the for example the cost for
each combination then we can actually
computer for example way to the
classification accuracy where you
associate the different costs or utility
for each specific decision so there
could be variations of these methods
that would be more useful but in general
Makarov average tends to be more
informative than micro averaging just
because it might reflect the need for
understanding performance on each
category or performance on gmail
calendar which are needed in any
applications but macro averaging and
micro averaging they are both very
common and you might see both reported
in research papers on text
categorization also sometimes
categorization results might actually be
evaluated from ranking perspective now
this is because categorization results
are sometimes or often indeed pasture to
a human for various purposes for example
it might be passed to humans for further
editing for example news articles can be
tempting the categorized by using a
system and then human additives would
then correct them or the email messages
might be routed to the right person for
handling in the help desk and in such a
case the categorizations will help a
prioritizing the task for a particular
customer service person right so the in
this case the results have to be
prioritized and if the system can give a
score to the categorisation decision or
confidence then we can use the scores to
rank the
decisions and then evaluate the results
as a ranked list just as in search
engine evaluation where you rank the
documents in responsible query so for
example a discovery of spam emails can
be evaluated based on ranking emails for
the same category and this is useful if
you want people to verify whether this
is really spin right the person would
then take the rent list that you check
one by one and then verify whether this
is indeed a spam so to reflect the
utility for humans in such a task it's
better to evaluate the ranking accuracy
and this is basically similar to search
again and in such a case often the
problem can be better formulated as a
ranking problem instead of a
categorization problem so for example
ranking documents in the search engine
can also be framed as a binary
categorization problem distinguish it
rather than the documents that are used
for the users from those that are not
useful but typically we frame this as a
ranking problem and we evaluate as a
rent Minister that's because people tend
to examine the results of sequentially
so ranking evaluation more reflects a
utility from a user's perspective so to
summarize categorization evaluation
first evaluation is always very
important for all these tasks so get it
right if you don't get it right you
might get misleading results and you
might be misled to believe one method is
better than the other which is in fact
or not true so it's very important to
get it right measures must also reflect
the intended use of the results for
particular application for example in
spam filtering and news cat predation
the results are used in maybe different
ways so then we would need to consider
the difference and design measures
appropriately we generally need to
consider how we are the results be
further processed by a user and then
think from a user's perspective what
quality is
important but the aspect of party is
important sometimes there are trade-offs
between motto aspects like precision and
recall and then so we need to know for
this application is high record more
important or high precision is more
important ideally we associate the
different acosta busy to differ in the
decision error and this of course has to
be designing an application-specific
away some commonly used the measures for
relative comparison of different methods
are the following plus forgetting
accuracy very commonly used for
especially balanced pesto set preceding
recoil and if scores are commonly
reported to characterize the
performances in different angles and
there are some lots of variations like a
production in the base or evaluating per
category managing and then take an
average over all of them in different
ways micro versus macro averaging in
general you want to look at the results
from multiple perspectives and for
particular application some perspectives
would be more important than others but
for diagnosis analysis of categorization
methods and it's generally useful to
look at the mini as many perspectives as
possible to see subtle differences
between methods or to see where a method
might be weak from which you can obtain
insights for improving method finally
sometimes ranking may be more
appropriate so be careful sometimes
categorization tasca may be better for
him as a ranking task and there are
machine learning methods for optimizing
ranking measures as well so here are two
suggested readings one is some chapters
of this book where you can find more
discussion about evaluation measures the
second is a paper about the comparison
of different approaches to text
categorization and it also has an
excellent discussion of how to evaluate
text categorization
you